# Commonly Used Parameters

In the last section we created our first grid, a fully capable add, change, delete tool to maintain any table. In this section we'll introduce a few additional parameters that you can pass when instantiating your grid that will affect how it behaves.

- [orderby](#orderby)
- [show_id](#show_id)
- [rows_per_page](#rows_per_page)
- [headings](#headings)
- [include_action_button_text](#include_action_button_text)
- [validation](#validation)

### orderby
As you can see in our previous example, the rows are displayed in entry order. However, that makes it hard on the user to locate the records they are looking for.  It would be much easier if we could display the districts in name order. 

Doing so is each.  Simply add the `orderby=db.district.name` parameter to the Grid call.

```python
grid = Grid(
    path,
    db.district,
    orderby=db.district.name,
    **GRID_DEFAULTS,
)
```

Go back to your Home page and then click on your Basic Grid again and now your records should be in alphabetical order by name.

[back to top](#commonly-used-parameters)

## show_id
By default, the grid will not display your 'id' columns, even if you pass them in your column list.  However, sometimes you want that 'id' field to display. 

You can tell the grid to always display the 'id' field by passing `show_id=True` on the Grid call.

```python
grid = Grid(
    path,
    db.district,
    show_id=True,
    orderby=db.district.name,
    **GRID_DEFAULTS,
)
```
Now your 'id' field appears as well as the name field.

[back to top](#commonly-used-parameters)

# rows_per_page
Sometimes you want to change the number of rows that will be displayed on your page.

This can be done by passing `rows_per_page=5` to the Grid call.
```python
grid = Grid(
    path,
    db.district,
    orderby=db.district.name,
    show_id=True,
    rows_per_page=5,
    **GRID_DEFAULTS,
)
```
The grid now displays only 5 rows at a time. You can now also see what the paging buttons look like and how they work.

[back to top](#commonly-used-parameters)

## headings
The grid will always build default column headings based on the label of the field it is displaying. Sometimes this isn't what you want. The py4web grid allows you to change the names of the column headings by passing a list of strings to the Grid call.

Let's change the 'id' column headingn to District ID (the grid will always capitalize the headings)

```python
grid = Grid(
    path,
    db.district,
    orderby=db.district.name,
    show_id=True,
    rows_per_page=5,
    heaings=['District ID', 'Name'],
    **GRID_DEFAULTS,
)
```
PRO TIP: You can pass html elements to your column headings. For example, you could force your District ID heading to appear on two lines using the following.
```python
from yatl import XML
grid = Grid(
    path,
    db.district,
    orderby=db.district.name,
    show_id=True,
    rows_per_page=5,
    headings=[XML('District<br />ID'), 'Name'],
    **GRID_DEFAULTS,
)
```

Go ahead and try it.

When passing headings, the py4web grid will apply the custom headings from left to right. You do NOT need to provide a heading for each column but just know that they are applied from left to right.

[back to top](#commonly-used-parameters)

## include_action_button_text
We've already discussed what an action button is. Action buttons are the New, Details, Edit and Delete buttons.  Pre/Post Action buttons will be discussed later, but this parameter applies to them as well.

By default, the grid will display an icon and text in each button. If you change set `include_action_button_text=False` in your Grid call, text will not be displayed next to the icons.

Try it here (note we've removed the custom multi-line heading)
```python
grid = Grid(
    path,
    db.district,
    orderby=db.district.name,
    show_id=True,
    rows_per_page=5,
    include_action_button_text=False,
    **GRID_DEFAULTS,
)
```
Now, just the button icon is displayed. But, if you hover over the button, the text will appear as a standard 'title' attribute would.

[back to top](#commonly-used-parameters)

### validation
A py4web form allows you to specify a custom validation routine that will be called to after the standard database validations have run. This give the developer the opportunity to do some additional validation on a row that is being created or updated by a form.

This functionality is carried through to the forms generated by the py4web grid. Using the `validation=callable_method` parameter on the Grid call you tell the Grid to further validate the forms by calling the 'callable_method'. An instance of the Form is passed to this validation method.

Let's assume we've added the following to our Grid call.

```python
grid = Grid(
    path,
    db.district,
    orderby=db.district.name,
    show_id=True,
    rows_per_page=5,
    validation=no_more_that_8_districts,    
    **GRID_DEFAULTS,
)
```
Then, we define our validation method:
```python
def no_more_than_8_districts(form):
    if len(db(db.district.id > 0).select()) >= 8:
        form.errors["name"] = "Too many districts, can only have 8."
```

[back to top](#commonly-used-parameters)

[Back to Index](../README.md)
